# Project: Texture and Color
**Student Name:** Jena DiFrisco

The goals of my contribution to the map included three parts. First, I specifically wanted to create a visually appealing color scheme for the Penn State's campus map. This color scheme had to work well with textures and other aspects such as rooflines and trees. I worked towards completing this goal by designing in Mapbox. The second goal I set for myself was to add textures to the campus map that brought a specific style and depth. Penn State's campus map should be custom and unique, with a realistic design. I came to this conclusion from prior research done earlier in the semester. After analyzing other interactive online campus maps, the class's research showed that successful maps captured the spirit of a school, as well as cohesive style. My third goal was to create a competitive online map. Once again earlier class research showed that companies like Campus Bird and schools like the University of Maryland had visually appealing maps. I decided that our map should be the same caliber, if not better, than their map.

Aaron provided me with a file contain OPP data and basemap for the Penn State University Park campus. From there I worked with the code of that data that was provided. Within Mapbox there are circles that contain a color spectrum, as well as specific color values. This is where I changed the hues within the map. I kept the color scheme realistic, choosing green for grass, gray for road and parking lots, whiter hues for the concrete sidewalks, and reds for the brick pathways on campus. As for the buildings I kept them blue like they were colored in Aaron's original map, as a representation of Penn State; however I darkened the blue, to a more navy hue so there could be a contrast between the brighter green background and the buildings layer on top. As for the buildings that are not included on Penn State's campus, such as buildings downtown or private residences, I used a light gray hue. A lighter hue was used to mute these areas, because they are not the main focus of our campus map.

After choosing hues for the map based on cartographic and design principles I went ahead with searching for textures online, as well as creating my own textures through a program called Inkscape. When thinking about this aspect for the map, I wanted to make sure that there were a limited number of textures incorporated. Too many textures can look busy and overwhelming to map viewers. I decide to place textures only on the roadway/parking lot and the flower bed layers. I had to make sure that these images were seamless or tessellations. This ensures that there are no gaps or awkward image spaces on the map itself. I decided to try and create my own unique textures for the campus map using Inkscape. I played around with the program and tested out different effects, filters, and overlays. Through trial and error as well as some tutorials, I finally created a texture that I felt was appropriate for the flower beds. The final texture was made from two filters called marble and cracked lava.

The next step was placing these textures within the code, or CSS. Within the code, there is a line for pattern fills. I had to make sure that my seamless textures were saved as PNG files and then I was able to write the file name into the code on the pattern fill line. Once the textures were in the code, they were uploaded into the map. There were some errors in this process, for example some patterns did not actual look aesthetically pleasing once they were uploaded into the map. This portion once again took some trial and error. Once I was content with the textures, I was able to apply effects to them. The three effects I used were `overlay`, `soft-light`, and `multiply`. Use this as a guide for effects. https://www.mapbox.com/tilemill/docs/guides/comp-op/#compositing_operations

The final part of this process was adding my fellow classmates, Grant and Beth's layers to the design of my map. I felt that the map would look more complete and cohesive if it included the hard work of my peers. In order to add the Tree layer, which Grant designed, and the Roof Detail layer which Beth designed I had write the layers into the code. Aaron helped me a great deal with this section of the project. He instructed me on how to add these layers to the code, by unlocking his layers and joining files and Mapbox IDs. Mapbox IDs are given to each individual user of Mapbox. The individual IDs are how data, styles, and maps can be processed and saved on the Mapbox cloud server.  Once the map code was edited and updated, I was then able to add the layers using CSS. I made individual style sheets for the Tree layer and Roof Detail layer so that the code would be organized. Making separate tabs also allowed me to easily find specific lines of code to make minor changes in the map. The last minor changes I made were to the Roof lines and trees. I decreased the line weight of the roof detail and increased the transparency of the trees.

Once all these elements were added together I found that the tree design competed with the texture of the flowerbed layer. These two features were close in hue and the number of trees on the map was overwhelming the number of flower boxes present. After seeing this problem I changed the hue of the flowerbeds slightly, so there was less conflict between the two layers. Adding all these elements helped me see that prior collaboration could have eliminated this issue; however this made me see how future work will continue. In the future, students should work together on design aspects earlier on in the process, to work out discrepancies.  
