# Project: Web Map Labelling
**Student Name:** Michelle Lenze

My contribution was to design labels for the map, with a particular focus on appropriate label design across scale. This involved two major tasks: data collection and label design and visualization. 

My first task, data collection, was comprised of compiling and cleaning a list of building names, compiling and creating abbreviations for the building names, and establishing campus areas. I was provided a list of building names by Jake Simon, who was in charge of the database. I edited the names in this list to make them readable on the map – ex: Walker Building (Eric A.)  Eric A. Walker Building. I then added several levels of abbreviations to be used in labeling at different scales – Walker Building, Walker Bldg, Walker, WKR. Currently, the three-letter code is in the .csv file but not in the shapefile because it did not seem like a practical way of naming the buildings without a legend. The three-letter code is in the shapefile in cases where students and faculty regularly use the code (such as IST, BJC, etc.). Where possible, I also grouped building into campus areas (mostly residence areas and agricultural science farms). I encountered a number of issues, including the fact that the list provided to me by Jake, taken from the campus Facilities Information System, did not entirely match up with the PASDA building list. Each list had different buildings labeled, and combining both lists still left many features unlabeled. Another issue was conflicting building abbreviations, especially in the three-letter abbreviations, which differed between the FIS list and the official campus PDF map. A final issue was the availability of information for campus areas. In particular, the agricultural science buildings were not clearly identified by farm/research center. Work still to be done on this task includes completing the building name list, determining which of the official abbreviations will be used, and contacting the necessary departments to identify campus areas. 

My second task, label design and visualization, was comprised of connecting the list of building names to the PASDA shapefile of the campus buildings, creating a shapefile of the campus areas, importing the shapefiles into Mapbox, and establishing the label design and hierarchy. I began by joining the .csv file list of building names to the PASDA shapefile table in ArcMap. As mentioned above, the two lists were inconsistent, which meant that more data editing was needed. In ArcMap, I also created polygons around the buildings that made up each campus area, which I then named with the campus area name (i.e. East Halls). I then imported the files into Mapbox and edited the CartoCSS code to establish a label hierarchy and design. Currently, the label abbreviation changes with the zoom level and ranges of building sizes (for example, a given style is applied to buildings of greater than 75,000 pixels at zoom 15). Ideally, the label would change on a building-to-building basis: a shorter abbreviation would be selected as the labels became too big to fit within a designated buffer around the building. Remaining work on this task would be to keep label design updated as the basemap design changes and to determine how to change label abbreviations on a building-by-building basis. 


**File `Lenze_PSU_Centroids_Labels`:** An excel file containing the GeoID, names, and abbreviations of all of the currently labelled campus buildings. 

**Folder `Lenze_Shapefile_Labels`:** A folder containing two shapefiles and their accompanying files. One is the shapefile of all of the currently labelled campus buildings and the other is the shapefile of the currently labelled campus areas. 

**Folder `Lenze_Mapbox`:**A folder containing the mapbox files of the campus map including styled labels.