# Project: Campus Tree Visualizations Grant Smith. The overarching goal of my final project was to create proportional symbols for the hundreds of trees on Penn State’s University Park Campus.  Inside the main goal, I wanted to create two symbols, one for deciduous and one for evergreen trees.  I also wanted to make the tree symbols semi transparent, so they wouldn’t take away from other map elements such as buildings, roads, and sidewalks. Trees are important for this mapping project, as they help the map look aesthetically pleasing and slightly more realistic.  To create proportional symbols for trees, I first needed to create two symbols for the trees, one symbol for deciduous trees, and one for evergreen trees.  Using Inkscape, a program similar to Adobe Illustrator, I created the symbols in .svg format and exported them.  I used Scalable Vector Format so Mapbox could read the files, and so the images would not pixelate when zooming in.  I then imported the OPP Tree shapefile into Mapbox, and attached the deciduous tree symbol to all trees with the ‘TYPE’ attribute “D” (deciduous), and the evergreen tree symbol to all trees with the attribute “E” (evergreen).  Since the original .svg files were particularly large, I had to scale the symbols down using an operation in Mapbox.  I then used another operation to allow points to overlap each other, as trees do in the real world.  Using the ‘SPREAD’ attribute, I then created a proportional symbol scale for the trees.  I went out into the field and took some pictures of actual trees, and used those pictures when modeling the trees in Mapbox.  Once that was completed, I used the marker-opacity function to make the trees semi-transparent.  When researching and styling the trees for the campus map, I noticed that there were some discrepancies between the OPP data and the actual trees on campus.  In some places, there would be a tree where there’s a building currently, or there would be a deciduous tree where an evergreen tree actually was.  That was my first issue.  Second, when zooming out to a smaller scale map in Mapbox, some of the trees would not scale down in size and would remain large icons.  This obviously did not look visually pleasing.  To remedy this, simply removing trees at smaller scales would eliminate this problem. To improve further on this project next semester, a student should definitely work to clean up the current OPP data, so the trees representations on the map correspond to the trees on the physical campus.  If more detail is sought for the tree markers, students could also work to make the point symbols slightly more realistic.  Other than that, the project was fairly straightforward, and turned out to work fairly well.  I enjoyed helping to contribute to this awesome campus map project, and I hope that OPP will one day adopt it and use it universally!

The powerpoint attached in this folder is the same one that I used during the presentations to OPP.  The .txt document is the code for the Tree layer in Mapbox.  The base map .tm2 file contains all the original basemap material and the Tree layer as well. 

That should be everything!
